---
title: "FAQ"
description: "Frequently Asked Questions"
lead: "Click above for a list of FAQs"
date: 2022-06-20T00:45:28-04:00
lastmod:
  - :git
  - lastmod
  - date
  - publishDate
images: []
weight: 10
toc: true
draft: false
contributor: ["rush"]
tags: ["faq"]
---

A few of your more frequently asked questions

## Are there ways to get ERC20 token balance for a given account address?

Yes. There is. In fact, this is one of TrueBlocks' most important features. Simply do `chifra export --statements <address(es)>` or query the API serve with `http://localhost:8080/export?addr=<address>&statements`. 

Note that `chifra export` has many, many other options which produce similarly-informative data such as `--logs`, `--appearances`, `--neighbors`, `--accounting`, and so on. See the entire help file with `chifra export --help`.

## How can you reliably detect ERC20 transfers if four-byte function IDs overlap?

Here's an example: https://www.4byte.directory/signatures/?bytes4_signature=0xa9059cbb.

The purpose of `chifra export` is to extract all transactions necessary to do 18-decimal-place-accurate accounting for a given address (or addresses).

If we encounter such as case (where there is a conflict in the four-byte or event topic), we pull that transaction as we would any other, but...when we query for the accounting (i.e. we query the smart contract for ERC20 balances), we get either an errored response in the conflicting case. This "mistaken ERC20 transfer" will have no value. The transaction may appear in the list of all transactions, but it will have no effect on the accounting.

In other words, regular old-fashioned, off-chain double-entry accounting will comes to the rescue. This is by design because as you point out, it's not possible to be perfect using purely on-chain data.

## Why would I want to run my own, local Ethereum node?

It's faster, cheaper, uncensorable, and private.

**Faster:** You can hit your own RPC endpoints as fast as you could possible want. No rate limiting. It's surprsing how important this is. It transforms a "difficult-to-use node" into a perfectly fine data server.

**Cheaper:** Over time, it's way, way cheaper to run your own infrastructure. There's only a single initial capital outlay. Plus -- you don't need a huge memory machine. Once the node and our scraper are caught up to the front of the chain, there's only a single block at every so many seconds. This is easily handled for both the local node and TrueBlocks. More memory is better, of course, but is also not the main bottleneck. (In fact, there are no bottlenecks--they system is mostly waiting for new blocks from the network.)

In the past, large disc space requirements used to be a problem -- especially with an archive node such as OpenEthereum (or Geth), each of which required 10-12 TB. Erigon requires only 2-3TB for the exact same data. You need at least a 4TB hard drive, but these are increasing more available.

One could, if they wished, used "node-as-a-service" such as Infura or QuickNode, but the monthly cost is high -- up to $250.00 for a base-layer (i.e. no tracing) archive node access with 'dedicated servers' going up from there. The former suffers from the 'rate-limiting' problem, and the later is probably way more expensive. A local machine quickly pays for itself.

**Uncensorable / private:** You're running your own servers inside your own building. If someone is either censoring your data or invading your privacy, you have only yourself to blame. These two aspects of the data access should be your responsibility, not a third-party provider.

Our recommendation is definitely a local machine running Erigon, with TrueBlocks installed on the same machine. An excellent option is [dAppNode](https://dappnode.io).

## Can I run against a Geth node?

If you're running against a non-archive Geth node (or any other node), then TrueBlocks will not work very well. After all, TrueBlocks' entire purpose is to study the transactional histories of an address. Non-archive nodes do not provide any historical transactional data.

If you're running against an archive Geth node (or other node software that does not support Parity traces), again, things won't work very well. TrueBlocks requires traces to dig fully into an account's transactional history. This is not a choice of TrueBlocks, it's a choice if the node software. Without Parity traces, the node simply can't keep up with the requirement to produce an accurate index.

If you're running against node software that is both an archive node and supports Parity tracing in a performant way (such as Erigon and Nethermind), then you'll run into one more problem. Disc space usage. Geth and Nethermind (and the old OpenEthereum) take up more than 10TB of disc space if you're running an archive node. Erigon takes up 2TB. Five times less.

**Upshot:** Erigon is our greatly preferred node software. Geth is basically unsupported by TrueBlocks. Nethermind is possible, but only if you have a very large hard drive.

## In scraper mode, what does finalized, ripe, unripe, and staging mean?

Run this command: `chifra status --terse`. You will see output similar to this:

```
2022/10/24 07:21:20 Client:       erigon/2022.09.3/linux-amd64/go1.18.2 (archive, tracing)
2022/10/24 07:21:20 TrueBlocks:   GHC-TrueBlocks//0.41.0-beta-20b34d9e0-20221024 (eskey, pinkey)
2022/10/24 07:21:20 RPC Provider: http://localhost:23456 - mainnet (1,1)
2022/10/24 07:21:20 Config Path:  <local path>
2022/10/24 07:21:20 Cache Path:   <local path>
2022/10/24 07:21:20 Index Path:   <local path>
2022/10/24 07:21:20 Progress:     15817943, 15817229, 15817806, 15817941, ts: 15817942
```

Notice the last line labeled "progess". What do these numbers mean? They are, in order, `latest`, `finalized`, `staged`, `ripe`, and `timestamp`. (`unripe` is not included.)

Here's what these numbers mean:

| block     | meaning                                                                            | distance<br>from head | configurable | will be<br>revisited |
| --------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------- | ------------ | -------------------- |
| latest    | The latest block on the chain. Same as `eth_getBlockByNumber('latest').            | 0 blocks              | -            | -                    |
| finalized | The last block that has been consilidated into a "chunk". (i.e. an index portion). | depends               | **yes**      | no                   |
| staging   | The latest block "on the stage". (i.e. awaiting inclusion in the next chunk).      | depends               | **yes**      | no                   |
| ripe      | Blocks that have been scraped, but not yet staged.                                 | 28 blocks             | **yes**      | no                   |
| unripe    | Blocks that are "too close to the head" to be reliable.                            | 0 blocks              | no           | **yes**              |
| timestamp | The latest scraped timestamp (used for debugging).                                 | n/a                   | -            | no                   |

For a much better explaination of these numbers (and more generally the scraper), please see the [TrueBlocks Spec](https://trueblocks.io/papers/2022/file-format-spec-v0.40.0-beta.pdf).

## Error message: current file does not sequentially follow previous file

When using chifra scrape indexer you may get the above message. What this means is a completely empty block was returned from the RPC. When I say completely empty, this means there's not even a miner address. Our scraper thinks that every block must contain at least one address, but on some chains this is not true (for example, on some private chains).

Alternatively, this sometimes happens when you run `chifra scrape` and `chifra init` incorrectly, although this last issue should be fixed if you've kept up with the latest updates.

You may turn this warning off by editing a per-chain configuration file. Search for the word 'allow_missing' on this page: https://trueblocks.io/docs/chifra/configs/.

The file you want to edit is in $CONFIG_FOLDER/config/<chain>/blockScrape.toml where $CONFIG_FOLDER is dependent on your operating system (~/.local/share/trueblocks for linux, ~/Library/Application Support/TrueBlocks for Mac) and <chain> is the name of the chain you're scraping.

You can find $CONFIG_FOLDER by typing `chifra status --terse`.

Create the above file if it doesn't exist and add the following value (creating the section inside the file if you need to):

```
[settings]
allow_missing = true
```

## The docs say we should use Erigon, may I use Geth (or some other node software) instead?

There's four reasons we suggest Erigon (the last is a deal-breaker).

1. Erigon is MUCH faster syncing -- two weeks vs many months for archive node
2. Erigon takes up MUCH less disc space - 2 TB vs. 12 TB for an archive node
3. Erigon's RPC is faster
4. Erigon natively supports the trace_ namespace. Geth supports it but only through a JavaScript emulator -- tracing is literally unusable in Geth. TrueBlocks needs tracing.

Item 1, is not that bad -- if you have the time to wait.

Item 3, is dependent on which RPC endpoints you use -- particularly tracing.

Item 2 matters immensely to us since we are so focused on running on small, decentralized machines and makes all other nodes not viable.

Item 4 is a deal breaker. Without traces, we would have to re-write the internals of our scraper. Plus, without traces, the "quality" or "completeness" of our solution is seriously compromised. We could index just events (like The Graph), but that will never allow you to reconcile (in an accounting sense) which is one of our priorities as well.

## Is the Unchained Index a requirement of using this tool? Since TrueBlocks only provides Unchained Index data for Eth mainnet, Sepolia, and Gnosis, how can I run the `chifra init` for Polygon?

This is a very, very good question. TrueBlocks is not a "service." By that, I mean that we do not provide you (the user) with anything other than the ability to create and use the Unchained Index yourself. It's as if we were giving you a hammer as opposed to, say, being carpenter that you can hire to complete a project. We provide Eth mainnet, Sepolia, and Gnosis because *we need those chains*. If someone else needs a different chain, they need to provide it for themselves. The innovation that TrueBlocks makes is that (if it makes any), is to allow you to provide the index for yourself. Furthermore, with TrueBlocks, the index is shared with other people without doing anything special. Super importantly -- other people can share perhaps other data with you. And it flows out from there. TrueBlocks is purposefully designed this way because "decentralization," which we believe must work by default.

## How can I make a list of all tokens I own (and their current or historical) balances?

An article on why this is hard: https://trueblocks.io/blog/recipe-getting-erc20-transfer-events/

**Future work:** explain using `chifra export --statements | jq ".data[]" ...

**Future work:** An example of historical holdings using Dune (for comparison): https://dune.xyz/0xrusowsky/Olympus-Wallet-History).

**Future work:** List token swaps, transfers, and fees paid by a list of wallet addresses (to help with the taxman)

